"Are you all ready, Tom?"

"All ready, Mr. Sharp," replied a young man, who was stationed near
some complicated apparatus, while the questioner, a dark man, with a
nervous manner, leaned over a large tank.

"I'm going to turn on the gas now," went on the man. "Look out for
yourself. I'm not sure what may happen."

"Neither am I, but I'm ready for it. If it does explode it can't do
much damage."

"Oh, I hope it doesn't explode. We've had so much trouble with the
airship, I trust nothing goes wrong now."

"Well, turn on the gas, Mr. Sharp," advised Tom Swift. "I'll watch the
pressure gauge, and, if it goes too high, I'll warn you, and you can
shut it off."

The man nodded, and, with a small wrench in his hand, went to one end
of the tank. The youth, looking anxiously at him, turned his gaze now
and then toward a gauge, somewhat like those on steam boilers, which
gauge was attached to an aluminum, cigar-shaped affair, about five feet
long.

Presently there was a hissing sound in the small frame building where
the two were conducting an experiment which meant much to them. The
hissing grew louder.

"Be ready to jump," advised Mr. Sharp.

"I will," answered the lad. "But the pressure is going up very slowly.
Maybe you'd better turn on more gas."

"I will. Here she goes! Look out now. You can't tell what is going to
happen."

With a sudden hiss, as the powerful gas, under pressure, passed from
the tank, through the pipes, and into the aluminum container, the hand
on the gauge swept past figure after figure on the dial.

"Shut it off!" cried Tom quickly. "It's coming too fast! Shut her off!"

The man sprang to obey the command, and, with nervous fingers, sought
to fit the wrench over the nipple of the controlling valve. Then his
face seemed to turn white with fear.

"I can't move it!" Mr. Sharp yelled. "It's jammed! I can't shut off the
gas! Run! Look out! She'll explode!"

Tom Swift, the young inventor, whose acquaintance some of you have
previously made, gave one look at the gauge, and seeing that the
pressure was steadily mounting, endeavored to reach, and open, a
stop-cock, that he might relieve the strain. One trial showed him that
the valve there had jammed too, and catching up a roll of blue prints
the lad made a dash for the door of the shop. He was not a second
behind his companion, and hardly had they passed out of the structure
before there was a loud explosion which shook the building, and
shattered all the windows in it.

Pieces of wood, bits of metal, and a cloud of sawdust and shavings flew
out of the door after the man and the youth, and this was followed by a
cloud of yellowish smoke.

"Are you hurt, Tom?" cried Mr. Sharp, as he swung around to look back
at the place where the hazardous experiment had been conducted.

"Not a bit! How about you?"

"I'm all right. But it was touch and go! Good thing you had the gauge
on or we'd never have known when to run. Well, we've made another
failure of it," and the man spoke somewhat bitterly.

"Never mind, Mr. Sharp," went on Tom Swift. "I think it will be the
last mistake. I see what the trouble is now; and know how to remedy it.
Come on back, and we'll try it again; that is if the tank hasn't blown
up."

"No, I guess that's all right. It was the aluminum container that went
up, and that's so light it didn't do much damage. But we'd better wait
until some of those fumes escape. They're not healthy to breathe."

The cloud of yellowish smoke was slowly rolling away, and the man and
lad were approaching the shop, which, in spite of the explosion that
had taken place in it, was still intact, when an aged man, coming from
a handsome house not far off, called out, "Tom, is anyone hurt?"

"No, dad. We're all right."

"What happened?"

"Well, we had another explosion. We can't seem to get the right mixture
of the gas, but I think we've had the last of our bad luck.  We're
going to try it again. Up to now the gas has been too strong, the tank
too weak, or else our valve control is bad."

"Oh dear, Mr. Swift! Do tell them to be careful!" a woman's voice
chimed in. "I'm sure something dreadful will happen! This is about the
tenth time something has blown up around here, and--"

"It's only the ninth, Mrs. Baggert," interrupted Tom, somewhat
indignantly.

"Well, goodness me! Isn't nine almost as bad as ten? There I was, just
putting my bread in the oven," went on Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper,
"and I was so startled that I dropped it, and now the dough is all over
the kitchen floor. I never saw such a mess."

"I'm sorry," answered the youth, trying not to laugh. "We'll see that
it doesn't happen again."

"Yes; that's what you always say," rejoined the motherly-looking woman,
who looked after the interests of Mr. Swift's home.

"Well, we mean it this time," retorted the lad. "We see where our
mistake was; don't we. Mr. Sharp?"

"I think so," replied the other seriously.

"Come on back, and we'll see what damage was done," proposed Tom.
"Maybe we can rig up another container, mix some fresh gas, and make
the final experiment this afternoon."

"Now do be careful," cautioned Mr. Swift, the aged inventor, once more.
"I'm afraid you two have set too hard a task for yourselves this time."

"No we haven't, dad," answered his son. "You'll see us yet skimming
along above the clouds."

"Humph! If you go above the clouds I shan't be very likely to see you.
But go slowly, now. Don't blow the place up again."

Mr. Swift went into the house, followed by Mrs. Baggert, who was loudly
bewailing the fate of her bread. Tom and Mr. Sharp started toward the
shop where they had been working. It was one of several buildings,
built for experimental purposes and patent work by Mr. Swift, near his
home.

"It didn't do so very much damage," observed Tom, as he peered in
through a window, void of all the panes of glass. "We can start right
in."

"Hold on! Wait! Don't try it now!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp, who talked in
short, snappy sentences, which, however, said all he meant. "The fumes
of that gas aren't good to breathe. Wait, until they have blown away.
It won't be long. It's safer."

He began to cough, choking from the pungent odor, and Tom felt an
unpleasant tickling sensation in his throat.

"Take a walk around," advised Mr. Sharp. "I'll be looking over the blue
prints. Let's have 'em."

Tom handed over the roll he had grabbed up when he ran from the shop,
just before the explosion took place, and, while his companion spread
them out on his knee, as he sat on an upturned barrel, the lad walked
toward the rear of the large yard. It was enclosed by a high board
fence, with a locked gate, but Tom, undoing the fastenings, stepped out
into a broad, green meadow at the rear of his father's property.  As he
did so he saw three boys running toward him.

"Hello!" exclaimed our hero. "There are Andy Foger, Sam Snedecker and
Pete Bailey. I wonder what they're heading this way for?"

On the trio came, increasing their pace as they caught sight of Tom.
Andy Foger, a red-haired and squint-eyed lad, a sort of town bully,
with a rich and indulgent father, was the first to reach the young
inventor.

"How--how many are killed?" panted Andy.

"Shall we go for doctors?" asked Sam.

"Can we see the place?" blurted out Pete, and he had to sit down on the
grass, he was so winded.

"Killed? Doctors?" repeated Tom, clearly much puzzled. "What are you
fellows driving at, anyhow?"

"Wasn't there a lot of people killed in the explosion we heard?"
demanded Andy, in eager tones.

"Not a one," replied Tom.

"There was an explosion!" exclaimed Pete. "We heard it, and you can't
fool us!"

"And we saw the smoke," added Snedecker.

"Yes, there was a small explosion," admitted Tom, with a smile, "but no
one was killed; or even hurt. We don't have such things happen in our
shops."

"Nobody killed?" repeated Andy questioningly, and the disappointment
was evident in his tones.

"Nobody hurt?" added Sam, his crony, and he, too, showed his chagrin.

"All our run for nothing," continued Pete, another crony, in disgust.

"What happened?" demanded the red-haired lad, as if he had a right to
know. "We were walking along the lake road, and we heard an awful
racket. If the police come out here, you'll have to tell what it was,
Tom Swift." He spoke defiantly.

"I've no objection to telling you or the police," replied Tom. "There
was an explosion. My friend, Mr. Sharp, the balloonist, and I were
conducting an experiment with a new kind of gas, and it was too strong,
that's all. An aluminum container blew up, but no particular damage was
done. I hope you're satisfied."

"Humph! What you making, anyhow?" demanded Andy, and again he spoke as
if he had a right to know.

"I don't know that it's any of your business," Tom came back at him
sharply, "but, as everyone will soon know, I may as well tell you.
We're building an airship."

"An airship?" exclaimed Sam and Pete in one breath.

"An airship?" queried Andy, and there was a sneer in his voice. "Well,
I don't think you can do it, Tom Swift! You'll never build an airship;
even if you have a balloonist to help you!"

"I won't, eh?" and Tom was a trifle nettled at the sneering manner of
his rival.

"No, you won't! It takes a smarter fellow than you are to build an
airship that will sail. I believe I could beat you at it myself."

"Oh, you think you could?" asked Tom, and this time he had mastered his
emotions. He was not going to let Andy Foger make him angry.  "Maybe
you can beat me at racing, too?" he went on. "If you think so, bring
out your Red Streak and I'll try the Arrow against her. I beat you
twice, and I can do it again!"

This unexpected taunt disconcerted Andy. It was the truth, for, more
than once had Tom, in his motor-boat, proved more than a match for the
squint-eyed bully and his cronies.

"Go back at him, Andy," advised Sam, in a low voice. "Don't take any of
his guff!"

"I don't intend to," spluttered Andy. "Maybe you did beat me in the
races, because my motor wasn't working right," he conceded, "but you
can't do it again. Anyhow, that's got nothing to do with an airship.
I'll bet you can't make one!"

"I don't bet," replied Tom calmly, "but if you wait a few weeks you'll
see me in an airship, and then, if you want to race the Red Streak
against that, I'll accommodate you. Or, if you want to enter into a
competition to build a dirigible balloon or an aeroplane I'm willing."

"Huh! Think you're smart, don't you? Just because you helped save that
balloonist from being killed when his balloon caught fire," went on
Andy, for want of something better to say. "But you'll never build an
airship!"

"Of course he won't!" added Sam and Pete, bound to side with their
crony, to whom they were indebted for many automobile and motor-boat
rides.

"Just wait," advised Tom, with a tantalizing smile. "Meanwhile, if you
want to try the Red Streak against the Arrow, I'm willing. I have an
hour or so to spare."

"Aw, keep still!" muttered Andy, much discomfited, for the defeat of
his speedy boat, by a much smaller and less powerful one, was a sore
point with him. "You just wait, that's all. I'll get even with you!"

"Look here!" cried Tom, suddenly. "You always say that whenever I get
the best of you. I'm sick of hearing it. I consider that a threat, and
I don't like it. If you don't look out, Andy Foger, you'll have trouble
with me, and at no very distant date!"

Tom, with flashing eyes, and clenched fists, took a step forward. Andy
shrank back.

"Don't be afraid of him," advised Sam. "We'll stand by you, Andy."

"I ain't afraid," muttered the red-haired lad, but it was noticed that
he shuffled off. "You just wait, I'll fix you," he added to Tom. The
bully was plainly in a rage.

The young inventor was about to reply, and, possibly would have made a
more substantial rejoinder to Andy than mere words, when the gate
opened, and Mr. Sharp stepped out.

"The fumes have all cleared away, Tom," he said. "We can go in the
shop, now."

Without further notice of Andy Foger, Tom Swift turned aside, and
followed the aeronaut into the enclosed yard.




Chapter 2

Ned Sees Mysterious Men


"Who were those fellows?" asked the balloonist, of his companion.

"Oh, some chaps who think we'll never build our airship, Mr. Sharp.
Andy Foger, and his crowd."

"Well, we'll show them whether we will or not," rejoined the man.
"I've just thought of one point where we made a mistake. Your father
suggested it to me. We need a needle valve in the gas tank. Then we can
control the flow of vapor better."

"Of course!" cried Tom. "Why didn't I think of that? Let's try it." And
the pair hurried into the machine shop, eager to make another test,
which they hoped would be more successful.

The young inventor, for Tom Swift was entitled to that title, having
patented several machines, lived with his father, Barton Swift, on the
outskirts of the small town of Shopton, in New York State. Mr. Swift
was quite wealthy, having amassed a considerable fortune from several
of his patents, as he was also an inventor. Tom's mother had been dead
since he was a small child, and Mrs. Baggert kept house for the widower
and his son. There was also, in their household, an aged engineer,
named Garret Jackson, who attended to the engine and boilers that
operated machinery and apparatus in several small shops that surrounded
the Swift homestead; for Mr. Swift did most of his work at home.

As related in the first volume of this series, entitled "Tom Swift and
His Motor-Cycle," the lad had passed through some strenuous adventures.
A syndicate of rich men, disappointed in a turbine motor they had
acquired from a certain inventor, hired a gang of scoundrels to get
possession of a turbine Mr. Swift had invented. Just before they made
the attempt, however, Tom became possessed of a motor-cycle.  It had
belonged to a wealthy man, Mr. Wakefield Damon, of Waterford, near Lake
Carlopa, which body of water adjoined the town of Shopton; but Mr.
Damon had two accidents with the machine, and sold it to Tom cheap. Tom
was riding his motorcycle to Albany, to deliver his father's model of
the turbine motor to a lawyer, in order to get a patent on it, when he
was attacked by the gang of bad men. These included Ferguson Appleson,
Anson Morse, Wilson Featherton, alias Simpson, Jake Burke, alias Happy
Harry, who sometimes masqueraded as a tramp, and Tod Boreck, alias
Murdock. These men knocked Tom unconscious, stole the valuable model
and some papers, and carried the youth away in their automobile.

Later the young inventor, following a clue given him by Eradicate
Sampson, an aged colored man, who, with his mule, Boomerang, went about
the country doing odd jobs, got on the trail of the thieves in a
deserted mansion in the woods at the upper end of the lake. Our hero,
with the aid of Mr. Damon, and some friends of the latter, raided the
old house, but the men escaped.

In the second book of the series, called "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Boat," there was related the doings of the lad, his father and
his chum, Ned Newton, on Lake Carlopa. Tom bought at auction, a
motor-boat the thieves had stolen and damaged, and, fixing it up, made
a speedy craft of it so speedy, in fact that it beat the racing-boat
Red Streak--owned by Andy Foger. But Tom did more than race in his
boat. He took his father on a tour for his health, and, during Mr.
Swift's absence from home, the gang of bad men stole some of the
inventor's machinery. Tom set out after them in his motor boat, but the
scoundrels even managed to steal that, hoping to get possession of a
peculiar and mysterious treasure in it, and Tom had considerable
trouble.

Among other things he did when he had his craft, was to aid a Miss Mary
Nestor, who, in her cousin's small boat, the Dot, was having trouble
with the engine, and you shall hear more of Miss Nestor presently, for
she and Tom became quite friendly. Events so shaped themselves that
Andy Foger was glad to loan Tom the Red Streak in which to search for
the stolen Arrow, and it was in the later craft that Tom, his father
and Ned Newton had a most thrilling adventure.

They were on their way down the lake when, in the air overhead they saw
a balloon on fire, with a man clinging to the trapeze. They managed to
save the fellow's life, after a strenuous endeavor. The balloonist,
John Sharp, was destined to play quite a part in Tom's life.

Mr. Sharp was more than an aeronaut--he was the inventor of an
airship--that is, he had plans drawn for the more important parts, but
he had struck a "snag of clouds," as he expressed it, and could not
make the machine work. His falling in with Mr. Swift and his son seemed
providential, for Tom and his father were at once interested in the
project for navigating the upper air. They began a study of Mr. Sharp's
plans, and the balloonist was now in a fair way to have the difficulty
solved.

His airship was, primarily an aeroplane, but with a sustaining aluminum
container, shaped like a cigar, and filled with a secret gas, made
partly of hydrogen, being very light and powerful. It was testing the
effect of this gas on a small model of the aluminum container that the
explosion, told of in the first chapter, occurred. In fact it was only
one of several explosions, but, as Tom said, all the while they were
eliminating certain difficulties, until now the airship seemed almost a
finished thing. But a few more details remained to be worked out, and
Mr. Swift and his son felt that they could master these.

So it was with a feeling of no little elation, that the young inventor
followed Mr. Sharp into the shop. The balloonist, it may be explained,
had been invited to live with the Swifts pending the completion of the
airship.

"Do you think we'll get on the right track if we put the needle valve
in?" asked Tom, as he noted with satisfaction that the damage from the
explosion was not great.

"I'm sure we will," answered the aeronaut. "Now let's make another
model container, and try the gas again."

They set to work, with Mr. Swift helping them occasionally, and Garret
Jackson, the engineer, lending a hand whenever he was needed. All that
afternoon work on the airship progressed. The joint inventors of it
wanted to be sure that the sustaining gas bag, or aluminum container,
would do its work properly, as this would hold them in the air, and
prevent accidents, in case of a stoppage of the engine or propellers.

The aeroplane part of the airship was all but finished, and the motor,
a powerful machine, of new design, built by Mr. Swift, was ready to be
installed.

All that afternoon Tom, his father and Mr. Sharp labored in the shop.
As it grew dusk there sounded from the house the ringing of a bell.

"Supper time," remarked Tom, laying aside a wrench. "I wish Mrs.
Baggert would wait about an hour. I'd have this valve nearly done,
then."

But the housekeeper was evidently not going to wait, for her voice
supplemented the bell.

"Supper! Sup-per!" she called. "Come now, Mr. Swift; Tom, Mr. Sharp! I
can't wait any longer! The meat and potatoes will be spoiled!"

"I s'pose we'd better go in," remarked Mr. Sharp, with something of a
sigh. "We can finish to-morrow."

The shop, where certain parts of the airship were being made, was
doubly locked, and Jackson, the engineer, who was also a sort of
watchman, was bidden to keep good guard, for the fear of the gang of
unscrupulous men, who had escaped from jail during a great storm, was
still in the minds of Mr. Swift and his son.

"And give an occasional look in the shed, where the aeroplane is,"
advised Mr. Sharp. "It wouldn't take much to damage that, now."

"I'll pay particular attention to it," promised the engineer. "Don't
worry, Mr. Sharp."

After supper the three gathered around the table on which were spread
out sheets of paper, covered with intricate figures and calculations,
which Mr. Swift and the balloonist went over with care. Tom was
examining some blue prints, which gave a sectional view of the proposed
ship, and was making some measurements when the bell rang, and Mrs.
Baggert ushered in Ned Newton, the most particular chum of the young
inventor.

"Hello, Ned!" exclaimed Tom. "I was wondering what had become of you.
Haven't seen you in a dog's age."

"That's right," admitted Ned. "We've been working late nights at the
bank. Getting ready for the regular visit of the examiner, who usually
comes along about this time. Well, how are things going; and how is the
airship?" for, of course, Ned had heard of that.

"Oh, pretty good. Had another explosion to-day, I s'pose you heard."

"No, I hadn't."

"I thought everyone in town had, for Andy Foger and his two cronies
were on hand, and they usually tell all they know."

"Oh, Andy Foger! He makes me sick! He was scooting up the street in his
auto just as I was coming in, 'honking-honking' his horn to beat the
band! You'd think no one ever had an auto but him. He certainly was
going fast."

"Wait until I get in our airship," predicted Tom. "Then I'll show you
what speed is!"

"Do you really think it will go fast?"

"Of course it will! Fast enough to catch Anson Morse and his crowd of
scoundrels if we could get on their track."

"Why, I thought they were in jail," replied Ned, in some surprise.
"Weren't they arrested after they stole your boat?"

"Yes, and put in jail, but they managed to get out, and now they're
free to make trouble for us again."

"Are you sure they're out of jail?" asked Ned, and Tom noted that his
chum's face wore an odd look.

"Sure? Of course I am. But why do you ask?"

Ned did not answer for a moment. He glanced at Tom's father, and the
young inventor understood. Mr. Swift was getting rather along in age,
and his long years of brain work had made him nervous. He had a great
fear of Morse and his gang, for they had made much trouble for him in
the past. Tom appreciated his chum's hesitancy, and guessed that Ned
had something to say that he did not want Mr. Swift to hear.

"Come on up to my room, Ned. I've got something I want to show you,"
exclaimed Tom, after a pause.